[Music]
from our go with the flow Department
comes this how to survive in a panicked
crowd
hey it's always good to be prepared for
anything especially now in the time of
the World Cup 2018 crowds of tourists
and football lovers from all over the
world can pose a serious threat in
certain situations or rock concerts or
all-you-can-eat buffet lines some of
those hungry people can turn into a mob
don't you know so what do you do if you
suddenly find yourself in a panicked
crowd don't worry we've got you covered
but before we start don't forget to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
notifications now you won't miss any of
our new videos here's tip number 1
explore the space around you
of course this tip is useless when
you're already among the panic people
trying to find a way to survive
however it's a good thing to do
beforehand according to safety rules
there must be an escape plan in any
public place so whenever you go to
crowded or busy places make it a rule to
take 5 minutes of your time to look at
it note where the emergency exits are
and pick a couple of alternative exit
choices windows for example yeah it may
seem like a lot of work for nothing but
it's still better to be safe than sorry
tip number 2 find a high point
when panic begins a crowd tends to
suddenly turn into one big powerful
flood of people and that's when it
becomes deadly you can easily be knocked
off your feet and the consequences of
that can be fatal so in a moment of mass
panic it's sometimes better not to go
toward the exit with the scared crowd
but to find a high point and stay there
for a bit it can be a bar counter
furniture or anything else that's high
enough if you're outside a tree can
serve as a high point to try not to
follow the crowd mindlessly instead
examine the situation and use your own
survival skills to get out tip number
three shorten your arms no we're not
talking about quickie orthopedic surgery
here you see it's always hard to move in
a panicked crowd plus a stampede can
make it almost impossible to breathe you
have to create at least a little space
around yourself and the best way to do
it in such circumstances is to shorten
your arms this will also help you
navigate your way through the crowd in
this situation you'll probably have to
push people aside or you'll be pushed
aside instead shortened arms will allow
you to cover yourself if necessary
protect your vital organs and make a bit
more space between you and the panicking
people nearby not bad considering the
position you're in
right
tip number four avoid narrow hallways
and openings narrow hallways openings
and corners these are the most dangerous
places during a mass panic people can't
control themselves in this situation due
to their adrenaline rush and they will
stop at nothing to escape and your
chances of survival
seriously decrease when you try to get
out through a narrow hallway you can
easily be pressed into the corner or
knocked down by the crowd and there's
only a slight possibility that there
will be somebody willing to help you out
if you're in a vast stadium or any other
huge place there has to be another way
out try to find it tip number five use
sign language to communicate with others
the panic doesn't go away in fact it
grows bigger and bigger once you're
already among a crowd of scared people
don't do anything that might scare them
even more screaming loud crying or
anything else will elevate the hysteria
and won't help you in any way you have
to keep a cool head and be patient if
you need something from somebody else
use sign language and your facial
expressions to explain the point there
are numerous ways to do this wave point
or use your eyes however if you
desperately need to say something
try to keep your voice steady and calm
people become very empathetic in a crowd
as they behave as an entity so your fear
and nervousness will spread quickly
tip number six find a viable way out
just like we said before it's not always
a good idea to let the crowd lead you
making your own choices and finding your
own way to survive is more advisable at
certain times this is especially true
when you're in the open air when
everyone is going toward the official
exit try alternative options a fence a
pallet structure or once again trees the
main benefit of such a decision is that
very few people do the same thing so
it's unlikely you'll get knocked down or
seriously injured if you're in a closed
building go for the window don't
hesitate to break it if necessary as
your life may depend on how quick your
actions are tip number seven if you've
dropped something leave it
many people get crushed by the crowd
when they decide to turn back and go
against the main flow of people of
course if you're doing this to save your
friend or family member that's perfectly
understandable but some people decide to
look for the phone or the watch that
they dropped earlier stop and think is
it worth it
changing the crowds dynamic can quickly
turn against you at skew with me
I I think I drop my phone here can you
all just kind of part way so I can find
it yeah that's gonna work so think twice
before changing your direction
dramatically it won't be that easy tip
number eight try the accordion move Paul
Wertheimer head of crowd management
strategies suggest another smart escape
strategy called the accordion move the
principle behind it is simple after
you've pushed forward by the crowd
there's always a law like a wave this
lull is your opportunity to move the
best way to do it is to move diagonally
between pockets of people you take a
couple of steps sideways and then
there's another wave search when it's
over you take another couple of steps in
the next law as a result you'll get to
the exit faster than you think and
that's exactly what you need
tip number nine don't stop if you can't
find a high point or a proper hideaway
keep moving with the crowd you'll lose
way too much energy if you try to fight
the crowd on your own just think the
force of only six or seven people can
generate up to a thousand pounds of
force which is enough to bend steel
railings if you want to survive you have
to stand on your own two feet go forward
or move diagonally and don't look back
try to keep an eye out for any possible
ways to carefully and successfully leave
the crowd if you happen to fall try to
get up quickly if it's impossible try to
crawl in the same direction as the crowd
if you can't do that either boy it's not
your day the only thing left is to
protect yourself curl up into the fetal
position and cover your head with your
hands never lie on your stomach or your
back as these positions expose your
lungs increasing your chances of getting
injured you never know what's going to
happen at any minute so knowing your way
out is always good but it's even more
crucial to never lose your humanity make
sure you don't knock somebody down let
women and children pass and help others
as much as you can and don't be afraid
to ask for help as well all Wertheimer
says that in his experience crowds tend
to be heroic and compassionate stick to
these simple rules and you'll be safe
so what is the best survival tip you
know tell us in the comments below don't
forget to give us a like and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]